---
title: About the movie ‘Nocturnal Animals’
layout: post
author: isha
categories: [ experiences ]
image: assets/images/nocturnal_animal.jpg
tags: [movie, nocturnal animals]
---
Recently I watched the movie, Nocturnal Animals, which was released in the year of 2016. Why did I decide to watch this particular movie? Well... three reasons - 1) it was a Friday night (I and my partner prefer to watch a movie on every Friday), 2) this movie is a suspense-thriller, and finally because 3) it starred Jake Gyllenhaal, I have liked almost all of his movies that I have seen till date, and I have always been impressed by his performance.

**[Spoilers Ahead]**  The story is about Susan (Amy Adams) reading a book written by Edward (her ex-husband, played by Jake Gyllenhaal) who sent her the draft of the book to read and review. Edward used to call Susan 'nocturnal animal' (because of her insomnia) and, incidentally, the book is also titled the same. The story of the book is an allegory of how the act of young Susan brutally ditching Edward (after aborting their daughter without his knowledge or consent) impacted his emotions and life. The story of the book is of a couple, Tony (portrayed again by Jake Gyllenhaal) and Laura (played by Isla Fisher), and their daughter, India (played by Ellie Bamber).  The scenes of the movie mostly oscillate back and forth between the bearings and countenance of Susan reacting, as she progressed through the book, and scenes of the events from the book, which she imagines in vivid.

To begin with, the opening sequence of fat nude ladies dancing gaily felt pretty bizarre to me. I was surprised that why was I so shocked or even annoyed by that. Well, to put it plainly, I found it very ugly.
<br>**ASIDE**: (please feel free to skip ‘ASIDE’  paras since it is not directly related to the movie, just my musings) *But had my reaction been the same if these nude females were good-looking and attractive? I don’t think so, and I’m not sure if that makes me obnoxious or prejudiced (against people who are fat). This is a good question to introspect. But (from my hasty analysis for the moment) I conclude that I don’t consider it a flaw in my personality. Every individual has his/her own taste of beauty and unattractiveness, and most probably many of these preferences and tastes are because of genetics and the environment in which the individual was born or brought up in. Similarly, I don’t find an obese nude body pleasing to my eyes, and it is okay to feel that way as long as my preference (of view) is not impacting my ability to deal fairly with people. Meaning that, in my opinion, a person’s looks shouldn’t determine how I behave towards them. I know that this sort of behavior is pretty common (maybe I, too, act like that sometimes unconsciously), and it makes me very sad. I want to talk about it at length in some other post.*

Anyway, I was relieved when the opening sequence ended and the story started. The movie is very stylish. What caught my eyes from the start was the cinematography. It was so rich and intense and, well, nocturnal (since 90% of the movie is shot in the night).  This story (as played in Susan’s head) starts with the couple (Tony and Laura) and their daughter (India) hitting the road. Shortly, there is a highway sequence that is extremely well shot and directed. In fact, it is one of the most compelling scenes I have ever seen on screen. The scene is about road rage which spirals down to a family of three (a couple and their teenage daughter) getting threatened and subdued by a group of people (well, ruffians actually), and which finally leads to the abduction of the wife and the daughter. It is heart-wrenching to see how helpless the family is and clearly, realizes so too, in the face of danger. The danger of being harassed, raped, and, most likely, killed by the end of it. I was glued to the screen the whole time and my heart was racing. The direction of the footage was brilliant, and the performance of the actors was authentic and touching. Being a girl, it made me feel quite effectually how it might feel facing such horror and misery, and I give it to the film staff for portraying it so well.
<br>**ASIDE**: *I am from India where rape is still prevalent. I have grown up hearing such stories and, I think, it has made me a little desensitized to this topic. So, generally when I read another such news story, then I don’t think much about it and just move on. Yes, I know, this is a sad affair of things. But watching this scene impacted me such that all the recent past news stories (which I had read and ignored) came flooding to my mind, and I started thinking (and feeling ) about them in a different light. I am thankful for this movie for sensitizing me (even a little bit) about this gory crime.*

Another set of scenes that I found fascinating was the conversations between the young couple Susan and Edward. The discourses, in all settings (casual chatting, flirting, fighting, etc.) of the movie seems pretty reflective and introspective. I like such writing.  It reminded me of one amazing movie that I watched a few years back (and need to re-watch it) - My Dinner with Andre.

Apart from that, I loved the back and forth footage between the shot of present-day Susan reacting to the book and the shot of the anguished emotions of Tony (from the scenes of the book as imagined by Susan). There were many such beautiful gems of performance scattered throughout the movie which enthralled me entirely.  Especially the scenes involving Tony(Jake Gyllenhaal), Ray(one of the perpetrators of the crime, played by Aaron Taylor), and Bobby (the funny cowboy detective, played by Micheal Shannon).  The scenes between Tony and Ray are pure gold. The last scene between them, with Ray justifying why he raped and killed Jake Tony’s wife and daughter and finally trying to instigate (and taunt) Tony when face to face with him, is exceptionally subtle and sublime. Towards the end of the movie, there is a brief scene in which one hears the distinctive heartbeat while the scenes vacillate between Susan, visibly distressed, taking bath, and dying Tony, which marks the ending of the story of the book as read by her. It is an amazing medley of poignant sound and compelling visuals. 

The ending scene of Susan (Amy Adams) waiting in the restaurant to meet Edward, which finally leads to the act of dawning on her he never intended to show up in the first place, is quite mesmerizing as well. It was Edwards’s ultimate revenge on Susan for breaking his heart and, figuratively, destroying his life. The emotions of pain, hurt, disappointment, and, most importantly, hopelessness is very well portrayed and evoked on Susan’s face. By the time the ending credits rolled, I was completely shocked and confounded. In fact, the scenes of the movie were fresh, incessant, and persistent in my thoughts throughout that weekend, and it took me some time to break away from its spell.

In my opinion, it was a beautiful piece of art, because it made me feel and think. It was a real treat for my eyes and my mind. A movie night, well spent!
