---
title: About my dreams of late
layout: post
author: isha
categories: [ compositions, experiences ]
tags: [dreams]
---
Of late I have been dreaming of going to someplace, not knowing where. My dreams also got influenced by the exhausting experience of long driving on my trip, in my dreams I was passing through long windy narrow roads(like the ones I encountered on my trip). As if it wasn’t confusing enough. Many times I have trouble falling asleep in the night, but when I do get a good night's sleep then I dream voraciously. My dreams are quite peculiar. I have observed that I get intense(in the sense of feeling and remembrance after I waking up) dreams when I am going through some emotional upheaval. My dreams are like a mirror in that respect, and I am thankful for that. I get to realize that I need to address certain concerns. Ok! Enough boasting about my emotional feedback to the dreams system. So recently I have been facing some concerns, naturally. My dreams are generally of the sort that I am on some path(not straightforward, but rather treacherous), I don’t exactly know where I’m headed towards. I have to keep moving because that’s all I can do while I’m on the way. Interestingly, I never even once think or feel about going back. It is just that the shot(dream shot if you may!) of I being in the middle of a path remains the same, perhaps going back is not even an option, well… to be honest, I am not even sure where I am coming from so no point of going back to where I don't know. Then there is a feeling of not knowing where I’m going, not knowing where I’m trying to reach. It is like I am hoping that I will get some sign of going somewhere familiar, I’m anxiously looking for that sign(road signs? Yeah, sort of) That is the constant theme of most of the dreams these days. And to be honest, I’m not even surprised at it. I know I’m going through such a phase in life and no wonder it is getting reflected in my dreams.
<br />
<br />
**Some background**: I left a well-paying job that I was extremely bored of( out of privilege or disinterest in the nature of the job or both? Can’t say for sure) I wanted to study abroad and I did it also to explore other related fields that might interest me. Well, I’m glad that I finally did( for years I have had been utterly undecided whether to leave a cushy job and go for the pricy education or not) well, I did go for higher education. While the quality of education was not exactly how I expected it, nonetheless the experience was great. My rose-colored glasses flew into the garbage, well worth it :) experience of living in a city like SF(even though I never went out and had fun in the city due to being a typical nerd busy in studies; well to be honest, I explored more of SF in my previous 2-days trip than on my 1-yr stay in SF, still the place had a charging impact on me. It was awesome to see people so passionate about technology and innovation) Anyway, I envisioned myself getting a data science job and staying in Cali for a while. All good and happy! But then the coronavirus happened, but I was still adamant about finding a job. After failing a bunch of interviews( that too for the SWE role, the field I was so miserable at that I decided to take a plunge into education partially out of desperation. That feels pathetic. Well I can’t say I don’t know what was I thinking because I do, I was trying to find a way to compensate for my such an expensive education), I was finally forced to take a step back and figure what exactly mattered for me in the long run - getting any job or getting a data science job or trying something else. Of course, I almost dislike corporate work experience so I wanted to try to break from it. I knew I had to try it but I never took it seriously enough to put my finger at any particular time and age. It occurred to me that now could be the time for me to try it out. Now, one can assume that I decided that because I was met with failure in my job search experience(for a while) so I gave up on it and jumped on the next thing. To be honest, I am not sure. It might have been because of that. But even if it was because of my unwillingness to go through any further job searching drudgery, getting a job was never an end goal for me(at least in my distant fancy). I have always seen working in a corporate job as a backup option if I don’t find any other means to be doing what I like and being able to earn my living in that process. But I was in a way addicted to being employed because of the salary it paid me and the freedom that comes from getting that salary. And perhaps I wouldn’t have had dared to break out of it if not for my disappointing experience in the job search. So, let’s be clear, I do value(a lot) being able to earn my own living. It is just that I was forced into trying out my first preference(trying to build something) and see where it goes from there.
<br />
<br />
Now trying out something like this is very scary for someone like me who likes order and security. I like order and security because the opposite of it makes me anxious and I am not very good at handling anxiety and uncertainties. Even though I realize that progress and innovation generally arise our of chaos and trying the unknown, but in my personal life I have always been very controlled in my choices and decisions. So in a way, my way of day-to-living(because of the fear of uncertain and unknown) has been quite controlled, but my spirit hates most things conventional and predictive. What a contradiction of smaller and bigger perspectives of oneself! It will be fun(hopefully!) to see what becomes of me eventually. By now you could have realized why taking this step(willingly or our of no other glorious choices) has been such a step for me in violating my own behavior. And of course, you won’t be surprised by now to know that I am sort of overwhelmed by taking such a step in my life. I guess that is the reality, not my fancy, since my dreams also corroborate to my apprehension and anxiety. I don’t feel anguish though, I used to feel so when I had to prepare for SWE interviews as if knowing that I am trying to get to the same misery that I wanted to escape from because of my desire to securely earn good money.
<br />
<br />
**So what to do?** Well, I don’t think I can do anything rather than trying to ride it out as bravely as possible. I am sort of in a turbulent chasm of uncertainties, not sure if I will sail or sink. But then no one knows and still one has to go through it. But some things might help, and I am trying them out. One of that is having a system for the daily activities so that the overall uncertainties do not mar the daily productivity, keeping a track of progress or pain-points might help as well. Another thing that I think can help in such cases it to realize the emotions, the nature of it; a way to accept it, or a way to vent it.
<br />
<br />
On a different note, I am curious about poetry. I might write on it at length but presently I will mention a bit about it. I wanted to write poetry at this moment, but I couldn’t come up with something that might sound like one. Well, I didn’t even try fairly, so let’s do:
<br />*Life attuned, we never know*
<br />*Where we go*
<br />*Where we come from*
<br />*Just a series of emotions*
<br />*A bit of craft*
<br />*To sail us through life*
<br />*From oblivion to the same*
<br />
<br />
Well, not sure if it is poetry or a series of random short phrases. Why poetry is what it is? I have never liked reading poetry as such, I find reading it annoying. Maybe I haven’t encountered a good poem, or maybe I don’t know how to read one(is there supposed to be a way to read it?) I find poetry to be quite abstruse, but I am curious about it at the same time(maybe because it eludes my grasp).